# NPSAKShallowLakes

## Shallow Lakes Monitoring Program. National Park Service, Arctic and Central Alaska Inventory and Monitoring Networks

An R package to connect scientists to data.

SQL databases are the premier option for data storage and retrieval of long-term ecosystem monitoring data. R is a popular statistical package for analyzing such data. Getting data from a database into R is often a time-consuming step requiring specialized technical knowledge - time that could be better spent analyzing data.

This package works like a data faucet for the Shallow Lakes monitoring program. You just open the tap for the data stream of interest. There is no requirement to know how the pipes work.

# Requirements

This R package is intended for use by National Park Service personnel for performing quality control procedures on data that may or may not have been certified for analytical use. As a consequence the package is only usable by NPS personnel having privileges on the database. People interested in certified data products generated by the Shallow Lakes monitoring program are encouraged to visit [Shallow Lake Monitoring in the Arctic and Central Alaska Networks of National Parklands at the NPS Data Store](https://irma.nps.gov/DataStore/Reference/Profile/2215910 "https://irma.nps.gov/DataStore/Reference/Profile/2215910") or to contact the [project leader](https://www.nps.gov/im/cakn/shallowlakes.htm).

# U.S. Government Works

Data and content created by government employees within the scope of their employment are not subject to domestic copyright protection under 17 U.S.C. ยง 105. Government works are by default in the U.S. Public Domain.
